README.md, before:

# Rocky-8 Minimal Base Box

This provides the configuration and Makefile to build a [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) minimal base box using [Packer](https://www.packer.io). The base box is intended for server (terminal) use only so is restricted to a single locale (with `en_US` being the default) which allows for a smaller box size.

There are templates provided for the following with `x86_64` architecture:
- Rocky-8.8

There is currently no requirement to support older minor release versions or alternative architectures but they could be added if necessary.

## Usage Instructions

### Prerequisites

The build environment required is macOS or GNU Linux (Fedora 38) Intel x86_64.

To build the box files you will need the following installed.

- [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org) (7.0.10_rpmfusion)
- [LibVirt](https://libvirt.org) (9.0.0)
- [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) (2.2.19)
- [Packer](https://www.packer.io) (1.8.5)

_NOTE_: You may need to create the VirtualBox NAT Network 10.0.2.0/24 if it doesn't already exist.

### Build

To build the latest, `x86_64` base box run `make` or `make build`.

```
$ make
```

To build a specific release version, use the `BOX_VERSION_RELEASE` variable.

```
$ BOX_VERSION_RELEASE=8.8 make
```

For usage instructions run `make help`.

```
$ make help
```

#### Box Variants

To build a box variant from an alternative box template use `BOX_VARIANT`. The default is `minimal` but there is an alternative `minimal-cloud-init` template to build boxes that include Cloud-Init. The variant `minimal-vmi` will generate an `VMDK` image suitable for importing into [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/).

To build images with an LVM partitioning scheme append the suffix `-lvm`.

Build a vagrant box with cloud-init support and an LVM partition:
```
$ BOX_VARIANT=minimal-cloud-init-lvm make
```

Build an image suitable for importing to a Cloud Provider such as AWS, DigitalOcean, Oracle OCI etc.
```
$ BOX_VARIANT=minimal-vmi make
```

#### Provider

The default provider is `libvirt`.

To build a box for the `virtualbox` provider use `BOX_PROVIDER`.

```
$ BOX_PROVIDER=virtualbox make
```

### Local Install

To install from a box file, generated by a successful build, use `make install` supplied with the same environment variables used to build the require box. This will add the box and output a minimal Vagrantfile template that can be used to create a Vagrantfile in a suitable directory for testing.

```
$ BOX_VARIANT=minimal-cloud-init make install
```

_NOTE_: If running vagrant via `sudo` do the same here to ensure the box is installed for the expected user.

Commit message:

Rename for consistency, fix vmi build output

README.md, after:

# Packer Build of Rocky Linux 8 x86_64 Base Vagrant Box and VM Image

This provides the configuration and Makefile to build a [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) minimal base box using [Packer](https://www.packer.io). The base box is intended for server (terminal) use only so is restricted to a single locale (with `en_US` being the default) which allows for a smaller box size.

There are templates provided for the following with `x86_64` architecture:
- Rocky-8.8

There is currently no requirement to support older minor release versions or alternative architectures but they could be added if necessary.

## Usage Instructions

### Prerequisites

The build environment required is macOS or GNU Linux (Fedora 38) Intel x86_64.

To build the box files you will need the following installed.

- [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org) (7.0.10_rpmfusion)
- [LibVirt](https://libvirt.org) (9.0.0)
- [Vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com) (2.2.19)
- [Packer](https://www.packer.io) (1.8.5)

_NOTE_: You may need to create the VirtualBox NAT Network 10.0.2.0/24 if it doesn't already exist.

### Build

To build the latest, `x86_64` base box run `make` or `make build`.

```
$ make
```

To build a specific release version, use the `BOX_VERSION_RELEASE` variable.

```
$ BOX_VERSION_RELEASE=8.8 make
```

For usage instructions run `make help`.

```
$ make help
```

#### Box Variants

To build a box variant from an alternative box template use `BOX_VARIANT`. The default is `minimal` but there is an alternative `minimal-cloud-init` template to build boxes that include Cloud-Init. The variant `minimal-vmi` will generate an `VMDK` image suitable for importing into [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/).

To build images with an LVM partitioning scheme append the suffix `-lvm`.

Build a vagrant box with cloud-init support and an LVM partition:
```
$ BOX_VARIANT=minimal-cloud-init-lvm make
```

Build an image suitable for importing to a Cloud Provider such as AWS, DigitalOcean, Oracle OCI etc.
```
$ BOX_VARIANT=minimal-vmi make
```

#### Provider

The default provider is `libvirt`.

To build a box for the `virtualbox` provider use `BOX_PROVIDER`.

```
$ BOX_PROVIDER=virtualbox make
```

### Local Install

To install from a box file, generated by a successful build, use `make install` supplied with the same environment variables used to build the require box. This will add the box and output a minimal Vagrantfile template that can be used to create a Vagrantfile in a suitable directory for testing.

```
$ BOX_VARIANT=minimal-cloud-init make install
```

_NOTE_: If running vagrant via `sudo` do the same here to ensure the box is installed for the expected user.
